 Syria: US forces have been attacked at least 4 times since Sunday strikes | CNN
PoliticsCNN11/16/2023 US forces have been attacked at least 4 times since Sunday
strikes in Syria  By Natasha Bertrand and Haley Britzky, CNNUpdated:
10:01 PM EST, Mon November 13, 2023       Source: CNN  US forces came under
attack at least four more times by Iran-backed groups in Syria after the US
military carried out air strikes on targets associated with Irans Islamic
Revolutionary Guard corps on Sunday, a US official told CNN.  All four of the
attacks came after the US struck a training facility and safe house on Sunday
near the cities of Abu Kamal and Mayadin, respectively. The Pentagon is not
currently tracking any injuries or damage from the four latest attacks.  The
President has no higher priority than the safety of US personnel, and he
directed todays action to make clear that the United States will defend itself,
its personnel, and its interests, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said of the US
strikes on Sunday.  According to a US official, the four attackswere a mix of
rocket and drone attacks across four different locations.On Sunday evening, a
multi-rocket attacks was launched on troops at Mission Support site Euphrates,
Syria, and two one-way drone attacks were launched on troops at Mission Support
Site Green Village and al-Shaddadi, Syria. Both drones were shot down before
reaching their target, the official said. There were no casualties or
infrastructure damage reported.  On Monday morning, multiple one-way attack
drones were launched against forces at Rumalyn Landing Zone, Syria. One drone
was shot down, the official said, another drone impacted the landing zone and
resulted in minor damage to four tents. There were no casualties reported.
Other attacks this weekend included multiple one-way attack drones launched at
forces at Rumalyn Landing Zone on Saturday morning; one drone was shot down
before reaching its target, and another did not detonate upon impact. On Friday
morning, a one-way attack drone targeted forces at al-Tanf Garrison in Syria,
but was shot down before reaching its target. There were no casualties or
infrastructure damage reported in either attack.  As of Monday morning, the
recent attacks marked at least 52 against US and coalition forces since October
17 24 attacks in Iraq, and 28 times in Syria.At least 56 troops have been
injured in the attacks by Iranian-backed groups at least 25 have sustained
traumatic brain injuries, while other injuries have been minor, Pentagon
officials have said.  Sundays strikes mark the third time the US has attacked
facilities or targets in the region after continued attacks on US and coalition
forces in Iraq and Syria. Last Wednesday, two US F-15 fighter jetsstruck a
weapons storage facilityused by the IRGC and affiliated groups. And on October
26, the USstruck two facilitieslinked to Iranian-backed militias.  On Sunday, a
second defense official said that the training facility was believed to also be
functioning as a logistics and weapons storage facility based on the secondary
explosions observed following the strikes. The safe house near Mayadin was
assessed to be functioning as a headquarters facility for IRGC-affiliated groups
in the area, the official said.  This operation was intended to disrupt and
degrade the freedom of action and capabilities of IRGC and affiliated forces
directly responsible for attacking US forces, the official added.  The official
also said that IRGC-related militia personnel were present at the facilities
when they were hit, though they said they are unable to provide a casualty
assessment at this time.  The United States does not seek conflict and has no
desire to engage in further hostilities, but these Iran-backed attacks against
US forces are unacceptable and must stop, the official said. We specifically
targeted IRGC-associated facilities to make clear to Iran that we will hold them
responsible for these attacks against US forces.See Full Web ArticleIraq: US
forces have been attacked at least 4 times now | The New York TimesUpdated:
11:15 AM EST, Mon November 13, 2023Updated: 12:30 AM EST, Tuesday November 13,
2026Update: "The US coalition, including Special Operations Command (SOCOM), has
struck IS-held Iraq and is using a wide array of air power, targeting both IS
positions and oil fields, as well as infrastructure, to drive IS